# ERPNext Unravel

## Problem Statement.
- Working with ERPNext, even for some experienced developers is a heavy task since it does not provide an API-Spec endpoint, from which fields to populate can be defined. As a result, developers have to spend time navigating through the documentation, understanding the modules, and should they want to integrate simpler front-ends, run into the problem of having to manually read through each docType's properties to know which field to populate. After that, compile a JSONified req (POST, GET, e.t.c) from which they can send to the req for testing and beyond. 
- Errors are bound to happen, missed fields which cannot be fully explained, unmet mandatory fields e.tc., all at the development level. Eventually they lead to bottlenecks and fatigue.
  - Defining the types is also a challenge since they field's metaproperties are not easily visible. In comes the *ERPNext unravel*, a small tool to help with *ERPNext development* by exploring some of the `DocType's properties` to improve the `developer experience` and `productivity`.

## Introduction

- A tool for `unravelling`/ viewing erpnext doctype's and their properties for purposes including:
  1. API development from typescript servers using prebuilt type definitions.
  2. DocType extrapolation/inspection for easier understanding on how ERPNext ties its properties and field Metadata together.
  3. Easier development from reading the docType details preventing underfetching and overfetching of the fields.

## Getting started

## Environment

- Activate the environment by running the command

```bash
. .venv/bin/activate
```

## Configuration

- There are two main mechanisms of working with flask

### 1. Without the Flask Configuration File
- To run the app use the command

```bash
# The main entry point for my flask app is the app.py file.
flask --app app run --FLASK_DEBUG=1
# The *--FLASK_DEBUG=1* runs the application in debug mode, allowing the user to make immediate changes upon saving of any *.py* file attached.
#
```

### 2. With the .flaskenv file,

- To run the application use the command

```bash
flask run
```

## Working with Markdown Files

### 1. Working with Flask Markdown  with Pygments

- Flask-Markdown is a Flask extension that integrates Markdown rendering into your Flask applications, allowing you to easily display content written in Markdown format. When combined with Pygments, it provides syntax highlighting for code blocks within your Markdown text, enhancing readability and presentation

- Installation: You would install both Flask-Markdown and Pygments using pip3:

```bash
    pip3 install Flask-Markdown Pygments
```

- You will need to include a CSS stylesheet generated by Pygments to apply the highlighting styles. Pygments can generate various styles, and you can choose one that suits your design.
Pygments CSS:

- To get the syntax highlighting to visually appear, you need to include a Pygments-generated CSS file in your HTML. You can generate this using the pygmentize command-line tool.

```bash
    pygmentize -S default -f html > static/css/pygments.css
```
(Replace default with your preferred style and static/css/pygments.css with your desired output path.)
